hello everyone gonna be another video in
my disaster preparedness series here as
you can see it's about fire prevention
and different fire emergencies in your
house again not every disaster is going
to be an asteroid hitting your house
most disasters are personal and they
involve things like medical emergencies
fires car accidents you know you got run
over by the lawnmower just mundane
little everyday things that you should
be prepared for now here are some basic
items that you need to have in your
house in case of a fire the first of
course as you can see is a flashlight
any kind will do you don't need the
tactical $3,000,000 flashlights that'll
you know blind people at three miles
just need a flashlight again that's my
previous video showed you should have
shoes by your bed also is a fire
extinguisher I recommend having one in
the kitchen any cooking areas and in the
living sleeping area as well there is a
smoke detector they can also be bought
as smoke detector carbon monoxide combos
or they can be bought separately carbon
monoxide is a big one because if you
have a carbon monoxide leak you won't
smell it likes a gas leak you just won't
wake up and you know not waking up is
kind of a bad thing also if you do wake
up and you get a really high
concentration in your blood you have to
go to the hyperbaric chamber and have
oxygen therapy and not only is that a
pain in the butt but it's a big deal too
so make sure you don't have any carbon
monoxide smoke detectors I think in most
fire departments they'll give them out
free if you're you know low-income or in
need and I'm not gonna tell you to lie
or anything but you could probably get a
smoke detector at a fire station they'll
just say that the next thing here pardon
my crude drawing it was I wanted to do
it on a dry erase board but I couldn't
find one and I'm not gonna buy one for a
little rinky-dink video ok so I just
used my awesome drafting skills and
threw up a little house here see the
little boxes there those are supposed to
be windows so those are your three
bedrooms and a bathroom their bathroom
there your living room your dining room
and your kitchen okay
so I'm sure most people know this but if
you wake up in say the bedroom and of
course you should all be sleeping with
your doors closed that prevents the
spread of the fire and the smoke and the
heat so have your doors closed and you
wake up and you see how there's smoke up
on the ceiling where I smell smoke so if
you see it and smell it don't just stand
up because there could be again the
carbon monoxide or other gases that you
don't detect and you'll inhale them your
oxygen level will go down and you'll
pass out and guess what and then you'll
be dead so just go ahead and get close
to the ground crawl over to the door and
feel if the doors warm or hot put the
back of your hand not your palm if it's
warm try to make it to the window that
goes for all the rooms that goes for all
the conditions if there's smoke and fire
stay low to the ground don't stand up
whatever you do also you should have an
escape route pre-planned with your
family the kids should know it everybody
should know it if you have young kids
set up a buddy system where the older
kids buddy up with the younger kids and
so on and so forth I have one kid my
wife has the other kid and have a
meeting place why drew ours here if we
need to come out the front for whatever
reason we can't get out the back people
are to meet at the mailbox if you can't
get out the front and you can only get
to the back people are to meet at the
big tree and those are the two meeting
places so again stay low have a meeting
place have a plan have fire
extinguishers in your kitchen and in the
sleeping area have smoke detectors in
the living area and the sleeping areas
especially this like I said you don't
want to you know fall asleep forever
that's kind of bad
I know I'm forgetting some stuff oh boy
well just to wrap it up that that pretty
much sums it up you have to have a plan
a fire extinguisher and these are cheap
you can I mean they're cheap relatively
cheap there can be anywhere between
twenty and fifty dollars but what do you
spend twenty fifty dollars on you know
these are kind of important and again a
smoke detector carbon monoxide alarm I
guess that's it thanks for watching of
course I forgot to add something I just
wanted to add a little safety tip here
from the inside of firefighting okay if
you we mentioned if you were in this
bedroom and you couldn't go the door
what if you can't find the window or in
your bathroom there's no way to get out
okay when fire firefighters come into
your house whichever way they come in
let's say they come in the front door
they'll either go on a left or a right
hand search they're not just gonna work
there smoking fire they're not just
gonna walk right in and walk all around
the building like that they're gonna get
on their hands and knees or at least
really low and they're gonna follow the
left hand side all the way around until
they do each and every room going
hugging the left side as well as if you
might have another person coming and
hugging this right wall all the way
around until they get to the whole house
so this is when when kids come to the
station for public education and stuff
like that I always tell them if you
can't find your way out find a window or
find the wall and stick with that
do not hide under the bed in the closet
under the dining room table don't don't
go to the middle of the room here
because it'll make it harder for the
emergency people to find you because
they're gonna be hugging be of a right
hand search or a left hand search trying
to reach out with their tools and what
their their hands as far towards the
middle as they can't now granted when
they get over here and they find a bed
they're going to go ahead and look under
the bed on top of the bed under the
covers if they find a closet they're
going to search the closet but just make
it easier on them
and find a wall or window or something
along the edge here do not go into the
middle it'll be harder for them to find
you and if God forbid you should pass
out from the smoke on the search they
will find you if you're in the middle
and not screaming not making any noise
it's gonna be hard to find you
especially with the smoke and everything
else so I just wanted to add that in
thanks for watching